[docs][material] Improve documentation about adding custom colors (#37743)
mui/material-ui: docs/data/material/customization/palette/palette.md

palette color objects are provided, they will replace the default ones.

This can be achieved by either using a color object or by providing the colors directly:

#### Using a color object

> The simplest way to customize a palette color is to import one or more of
> the [color objects](/material-ui/customization/color/#2014-material-design-color-palettes)
> and apply them:

Reviewer: Formatting; avoid using "simple" whenever possible.

```suggestion
The most direct way to customize a palette color is to import and apply one or more [color objects](/material-ui/customization/color/#2014-material-design-color-palettes), as shown below:
```

{{"demo": "UsingColorObject.js", "defaultCodeOpen": true }}

#### Providing the colors directly

> You can also modify each color directly.
> For that, you'll have to provide an object with one or more of the color tokens.

Reviewer: Copy editing.

```suggestion
To modify each color directly, provide an object with one or more of the color tokens.
```

> Only the `main` token is required.
> The `light`, `dark`, and `contrastText` tokens are optional and if not provided,
> then their values are calculated automatically:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Only the `main` token is required; `light`, `dark`, and `contrastText` are optional, and if not provided, then their values are calculated automatically:
```

{{"demo": "ManuallyProvidePaletteColor.js" }}

> ### Contrast Threshold

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Contrast threshold
```

> The `contrastText` token is calculated using the `contrastThreshold` value,
> to maximize the contrast between the background and the text.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The `contrastText` token is calculated using the `contrastThreshold` value, to maximize the contrast between the background and the text.
```

> A higher contrast threshold value increases the point at which a background color is considered light,
> and thus given a dark `contrastText`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
A higher contrast threshold value increases the point at which a background color is considered light, and thus given a dark `contrastText`.
```

> Note that the contrast threshold follows a non-linear curve,
> and defaults to a value of 3 which indicates a minimum contrast ratio of 3:1.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Note that the contrast threshold follows a non-linear curve, and defaults to a value of 3 which indicates a minimum contrast ratio of 3:1.
```

{{"demo": "ContrastThreshold.js" }}

### Tonal offset

> The `light` and `dark` tokens are calculated using the `tonalOffset` value,
> to shift the `main` color's luminance.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The `light` and `dark` tokens are calculated using the `tonalOffset` value, to shift the `main` color's luminance.
```

A higher tonal offset value will make `light` tokens lighter, and `dark` tokens darker.

:::warning

> This only applies when customizing colors,
> it won't have any effect on the [default values](#default-values).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This only applies when working with custom colors—it won't have any effect on the [default values](#default-values).
```

:::

> For example, the tonal offset default value `0.2` shifts the luminance by approximately two indexes,
> so if `main` token is `blue[500]`, then `light` token would be `blue[300]` and `dark` token would be `blue[700]`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For example, the tonal offset default value `0.2` shifts the luminance by approximately two indexes, so if the `main` token is `blue[500]`, then the `light` token would be `blue[300]` and `dark` would be `blue[700]`.
```

The tonal offset value can be either a number between 0 and 1 (which would apply to both `light` and `dark` tokens) or an object with `light` and `dark` keys specified:

{{"demo": "TonalOffset.js" }}

## Custom colors

:::warning
Unlike [default colors](#default-colors), tokens for custom colors are _not_ automatically calculated.
:::

> To add custom colors either provide the tokens manually or generate them using the `augmentColor` utility:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To add custom colors, you must either provide the tokens manually, or generate them using the `augmentColor` utility:
```

### Provide tokens manually

The most straightforward approach is to define all tokens—`main`, `light`, `dark`, and `contrastText`—manually:

{{"demo": "ManuallyProvideCustomColor.js" }}

> If you need to manipulate colors, then `@mui/material/styles` provides [a set of utilities](https://github.com/mui/material-ui/blob/master/packages/mui-material/src/styles/index.d.ts#L52-L67) to help with this. The following example uses the `alpha` and `getContrastRatio` utils to define tokens using opacity:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you need to manipulate colors, `@mui/material/styles` provides [a set of utilities](https://github.com/mui/material-ui/blob/master/packages/mui-material/src/styles/index.d.ts#L52-L67) to help with this. 
The following example uses the `alpha` and `getContrastRatio` utilities to define tokens using opacity:
```

{{"demo": "UsingStylesUtils.js" }}

### Generate tokens using augmentColor utility

> Alternatively, you can generate the `light`, `dark` and `contrastText` tokens using the palette's `augmentColor` utility,
> which is the same function used for the default palette colors.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Alternatively, you can generate the `light`, `dark` and `contrastText` tokens using the palette's `augmentColor` utility, which is the same function used for the default palette colors.
```

This requires creating the theme in two steps and providing the `main` token on which the other will be based on:

{{"demo": "UsingAugmentColor.js" }}

> The [contrast threshold](#contrast-threshold) and [tonal offset](#tonal-offset) values
> will apply for the colors defined using this utility.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The [contrast threshold](#contrast-threshold) and [tonal offset](#tonal-offset) values will apply for the colors defined using this utility.
```

### Using in components

> After adding a custom color,
> you will be able to use it in components the same way default palette colors are used:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
After adding a custom color, you will be able to use it in components just like you do with default palette colors:
```

```js
<Button color="custom">
```

> ### Typescript

Reviewer: "TypeScript" is the correct capitalization

```suggestion
### TypeScript
```

> If you're using Typescript, then you need to use [module augmentation](/material-ui/guides/typescript/#customization-of-theme) for custom colors.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you're using TypeScript, then you need to use [module augmentation](/material-ui/guides/typescript/#customization-of-theme) for custom colors.
```

> To add a custom color to the palette,
> you'll have to add it to the `Palette` and `PaletteOptions` interfaces:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To add a custom color to the palette, you must add it to the `Palette` and `PaletteOptions` interfaces:
```

<!-- tested with packages/mui-material/test/typescript/augmentation/paletteColors.spec.ts -->

```ts
declare module '@mui/material/styles' {
  interface Palette {
    custom: Palette['primary'];
  }

  interface PaletteOptions {
    custom?: PaletteOptions['primary'];
  }
}
```

> To use the custom color for the `color` prop of a component,
> you'll need to add it to the component's `PropsColorOverrides` interface.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To use a custom color for the `color` prop of a component, you must add it to the component's `PropsColorOverrides` interface.
```

> For example if you need to use it on the `Button` component add it like this:

Reviewer: Copy editing; no back ticks around component names (this is an outdated convention that we're trying to move past). 

```suggestion
The example below shows how to do this with a Button component:
```

<!-- tested with packages/mui-material/test/typescript/augmentation/paletteColors.spec.ts -->

```ts
declare module '@mui/material/Button' {
  interface ButtonPropsColorOverrides {
    custom: true;
  }
}
```

## Adding color tokens

> To add a new [color token](#color-tokens) include it in the color's object as follows:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To add a new [color token](#color-tokens), include it in the color's object as follows:
```

{{"demo": "AddingColorTokens.js" }}

> ### Typescript

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### TypeScript
```

> If you're using Typescript, then you'll need to use [module augmentation](/material-ui/guides/typescript/#customization-of-theme)
> to add the new color token to the `PaletteColor` and `SimplePaletteColorOptions` interfaces as follows:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you're using TypeScript, then you'll need to use [module augmentation](/material-ui/guides/typescript/#customization-of-theme) to add the new color token to the `PaletteColor` and `SimplePaletteColorOptions` interfaces as follows:
```

});
```

For the default palette colors (the ones listed in the [Default values section](#default-values) above), only the `main` token is required. If the other tokens are not provided their value is calculated as follows:

- The `dark` and `light` tokens are calculated according to the `tonalOffset` value with the `main` color as a starting point.
- The `contrastText` token is calculated according to the `contrastThreshold` value to contrast with the `main` color.

> For custom colors, all tokens (`main`, `light`, `dark` and `contrastText`) are required. **Their values won't be automatically calculated** like for the default palette colors. If you wish to calculate the tokens from the `main` color you can use the palette's `augmentColor` utility, you'll have to create the theme in two steps:
> 
> ```js
> import { createTheme } from '@mui/material/styles';
> 
> const theme = createTheme({
>   // Theme customization here as usual, including tonalOffset and/or
>   // contrastThreshold as the augmentColor util relies on these
> });
> 
> const themeWithCustomColor = createTheme(theme, {
>   // Custom colors created with augmentColor here
>   palette: {
>     customColor: theme.palette.augmentColor({
>       color: {
>         main: '#FF5733',
>       },
>       name: 'customColor',
>     }),
>   },
> });
> ```

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
**Values for custom palette colors won't be automatically calculated** like for the default palette colors.
To generate color tokens from a custom `main` color, create the theme in two steps and use the palette's `augmentColor` utility:

```js
import { createTheme } from '@mui/material/styles';

const theme = createTheme({
  // Theme customization here as usual, including tonalOffset and/or
  // contrastThreshold as the augmentColor util relies on these
});

const themeWithCustomColor = createTheme(theme, {
  // Custom colors created with augmentColor here
  palette: {
    customColor: theme.palette.augmentColor({
      color: {
        main: '#FF5733',
      },
      name: 'customColor',
    }),
  },
});
```

Alternatively you can provide all tokens (`main`, `light`, `dark` and `contrastText`) manually - `@mui/system` provides [a set of utilities](https://github.com/mui/material-ui/blob/master/packages/mui-system/src/colorManipulator.d.ts) for manipulating color values.

Reviewer 2: I think not saying that creating the theme in two steps is something that "you _have_ to do" makes it seem less like a weird workaround 😅

Also while looking at this PR I found that @mui/system exports a bunch of color utilities that aren't documented in the docs. I figure it might be worth linking to here – for somebody who wants to go with "provide all the tokens myself", it might save them from having to shop for a another color manipulation library 😬

Reviewer 2: I think linking to somewhere in the source is enough for now ~

});
```

> For the default palette colors (the ones listed in the [Default values section](#default-values) above), only the `main` token is required. If the other tokens are not provided their value is calculated as follows:

Reviewer: Give each sentence a new line to make line-by-line reviews simpler (older docs don't always adhere to this practice, but it's worth editing whenever you see it). The Markdown only inserts an actual line break after two new lines.

Also, it's always a good idea to explicitly state "if...then" for the benefit of folks who don't have strong English language skills—the sentence's clauses can be difficult to parse otherwise.

```suggestion
For the default palette colors (the ones listed in the [Default values section](#default-values) above), only the `main` token is required. 
If the other tokens aren't provided, then their values are calculated as follows:
```

> - The `light` and `dark` tokens are calculated according to the `tonalOffset` value with the `main` color as a starting point.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- The `light` and `dark` tokens are calculated according to the `tonalOffset` value, with the `main` color as a starting point.
```

> - The `contrastText` token is calculated according to the `contrastThreshold` value to contrast with the `main` color.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- The `contrastText` token is calculated according to the `contrastThreshold` value, to contrast with the `main` color.
```

> **Values for custom palette colors won't be automatically calculated** like for the default palette colors.

Reviewer: We could add a [warning callout](https://www.notion.so/mui-org/Callouts-and-their-usage-in-the-docs-7e709a02c72142cd8b1a0829861435c5) here since this fits the definition of something a dev should keep in mind to avoid potential problems.

```suggestion
:::warning
Unlike default palette colors, values for custom palette colors are *not* automatically calculated.
:::
```

> 

Reviewer: I think we should explicitly state what the options are before describing them.

```suggestion

There are two options for generating custom palette color tokens: manually, or via the `augmentColor` utility.

```

> You can provide all tokens (`main`, `light`, `dark` and `contrastText`) manually, `@mui/material/styles` provides [a set of utilities](https://github.com/mui/material-ui/blob/master/packages/mui-material/src/styles/index.d.ts#L52-L67) for manipulating color values you might find helpful.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
#### Generating custom tokens manually

The most straightforward approach is to define all tokens—`main`, `light`, `dark` and `contrastText— manually.
`@mui/material/styles` provides [a set of utilities](https://github.com/mui/material-ui/blob/master/packages/mui-material/src/styles/index.d.ts#L52-L67) for manipulating color values to help with this.
```

Reviewer: Should we give a code snippet here just to show exactly what that looks like?

> Alternatively, you can generate the tokens from a custom `main` color, to do so create the theme in two steps and use the palette's `augmentColor` utility:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
#### Generating custom tokens with augmentColor

Alternatively, you can generate custom tokens from a custom `main` color.
This requires creating the theme in two steps, and using the palette's `augmentColor` utility:
```

```js
import { createTheme } from '@mui/material/styles';

const theme = createTheme({
  // Theme customization here as usual, including tonalOffset and/or
  // contrastThreshold as the augmentColor util relies on these
});

const themeWithCustomColor = createTheme(theme, {
  // Custom colors created with augmentColor here
  palette: {
    customColor: theme.palette.augmentColor({
      color: {
        main: '#FF5733',
      },
      name: 'customColor',
    }),
  },
});
```

> Both the `tonalOffset` and `contrastThreshold` values may be customized as needed.

Reviewer: Rephrasing for active instead of passive voice.

```suggestion
You can customize both the `tonalOffset` and `contrastThreshold` values as needed.
```

> The `tonalOffset` value can either be a number between 0 and 1, which will apply to both light and dark variants, or an object with light and dark variants specified by the following TypeScript type:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The `tonalOffset` value can be either a number between 0 and 1 (which will apply to both light and dark variants), or an object with light and dark variants specified by the following TypeScript type:
```

    };
```

A higher value for `tonalOffset` will make calculated values for `light` lighter, and `dark` darker.

> A higher value for `contrastThreshold` increases the point at which a background color is considered
> light, and given a dark `contrastText`. Note that `contrastThreshold` follows a non-linear curve, and
> starts with a value of 3 (requiring a minimum contrast ratio of 3:1).

Reviewer: Fixing old formatting

```suggestion
A higher value for `contrastThreshold` increases the point at which a background color is considered light, and thus given a dark `contrastText`. 
Note that `contrastThreshold` follows a non-linear curve, and starts with a value of 3 (requiring a minimum contrast ratio of 3:1).
```

}
```

## Non-palette colors

> To add colors outside of `theme.palette`,
> check out the [Custom variables](/material-ui/customization/theming/#custom-variables) section on the Theming page.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To learn how to add colors outside of `theme.palette`, see [Theming—Custom variables](/material-ui/customization/theming/#custom-variables).
```

## Accessibility

> To meet the minimum contrast of at least 4.5:1 as defined in [WCAG 2.1 Rule 1.4.3](https://www.w3.org/WAI/WCAG21/Understanding/contrast-minimum.html),
> create a custom theme with a [contrast threshold](#contrast-threshold) value of 4.5 as follows:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To meet the minimum contrast of at least 4.5:1 as defined in [WCAG 2.1 Rule 1.4.3](https://www.w3.org/WAI/WCAG21/Understanding/contrast-minimum.html), create a custom theme with a [contrast threshold](#contrast-threshold) value of 4.5 as follows:
```
